btb/lesson2/README.md, before:

# Lesson 2 - Recursion with Iteration, SubProblems, Divide & Conquer Patterns
## Lesson Description
Implementation of actual recursion problems following one of the described recursion patterns listed below.
- iteration
- subproblems
- divide & conquer

## Problems
### Problem 1
#### Problem Statement
>
Print out the odd indicies of an integer array.
>
```
Input : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
Output : 
2 // occurs on index 1
4 // occurs on index 3
6 // occurs on index 5
8 // occurs on index 7
10 // occurs on index 9
```

#### Problem Discussion
- an iterative implementation would be quite trival
  - just iterate through the array two at a time starting at index 1
  - print at each index that is less than the overall array length
- expected operational time will be O(N) since will hit every other element within the array which is N/2 == N for complexity.
- expected memory impact will also be O(N) due to linear relationship to the number of elements within the array.

#### Problem Design
- take the serial approach and just convert into a recursive iteration problem.
- have each layer of the recursive function be responsible for the printing out of the current index and then call on the next index with the increment by two.
- if the passed in index is greater than that of the array total length, then just return (base case).

#### Problem Issues
- None

### Problem 2
#### Problem Statement
>
Find all substrings of a string.

#### Problem Discussion
- a substring of a string are consecutive combinations of characters within the string.
- `abcd` would result in the following substrings
  - `<empty>`
  - `a`
  - `b`
  - `c`
  - `d`
  - `ab`
  - `bc`
  - `cd`
  - `abc`
  - `bcd`
  - `abcd`
- this is an iterative pattern
- total number of strings being generated should be on the order of O(N^2) where N is the length of the original string.
- will have something along the lines of `N + (N - 1) + (N - 2) + ... 2 + 1 = N(N + 1) / 2 = O(N^2)`
- want only the unique set of substrings, thus if have repeating patterns will get repeating substrings.

#### Problem Design
- the original code provided multiple functions, 3 in total and wants to remove the unnecessary third.
- the original operates on at a specific index and then increments by one for the substring range resulting in the following substring
  - `a`
  - `ab`
  - `abc`
  - `abcd`
  - `b`
  - `bc`
  - `bcd`
  - `c`
  - `cd`
  - `d`
- the presentation of the data is position ordered
- can take the original code and move the iteration control to the first function with the substring functionality contained to the second function / the first recursive function.
- keep a `HashSet` of all substrings seen.  If the substring is a new string then add it to the set.

#### Problem Issues
- None

### Problem 3
#### Problem Statement
>
Implement the `Towers of Hanoi` to find the total number of moves it takes to move N disks.
>
Provide the following within the implementation.
- refer to the source destination and aux positions as indicies {0,1,2}
- create a `Move` class that represents a move of a disk.  Include the disk index, source and destination.  Set the return value of moving to be the list of `Move` objects.

#### Problem Discussion
- would have thought more of creating a `Disk` class over a `Move` class with the `Disk` having a move method.
- know that a disk can only be moved to another location iff
  - the location has no disks
  - the top disk at a specific location is larger than the disk being moved to a target location.

#### Problem Design
- have three stacks, contained within an array.  
- use the indicies provided above to index into for a from to destination
- will only need to perform push and pop operations to move disks around
- disks will be valued 1 through N

#### Problem Issues
- I can not see the solution programmatically.
- I have done this problem around 10 to 15 times in my career but always have to look at the solution.
- Don't know the correct mental reference for approaching this problem.
- Problems in this class where I can not see the sub-problem logic prevents me from making a solution.
- This problem is on my `memorize` set of problems prior to an interview.  Can you help me move it off this list?
- I don't see the aid of stair step problem usage for this, even though I can answer the stair step problem in an interview and have.

### Problem 4
#### Problem Statement
>
Given a binary tree with distinct elements, print all possible arrays that could have led to this tree.

#### Problem Discussion
- depth of the node determines some order with respect to lower order nodes for a given tree branch.
- problem should be around a divide and conquer technique
- expect the time complexity to be greater than that of O(2^N) due to iterating over both left and right arraylists along with numerous copies.

#### Problem Design
- create supporting code to support the generation of a BST.
- nodes at the same level can occur in any order since they will end up in the same place
- due to the level being a controlling factor will likely need to support a depth first search approach to the problem to create the permutation of the insertion arrays. 

#### Problem Issues
- just a lot of code.
- spent a lot of time trying to address the array permutation.  Was trying to approach it differently but ended up going with what I knew how to do.
- once figured out how I wanted to do the permutations of each list, was not difficult.

### Problem 5
#### Problem Statement
>
- 1. What did you like about this submission?
  - I liked that it was actual coding.
- 2. What didn't you like about this assignment?
  - Would have liked some more on how to approach the specific patterns besides just answer the questions.
  - From the lecture on the review of lesson 1, if I was asked to say implement some of the pieces I would not know how.  
- 3. Would like the problems to build off of each other, so that way I can see a bit more of how to approach the patterns.  At the moment it is very much of if I see it I can answer it.  If I can not then I have issues.  This is quite true in problem 3 even though it is a problem I have answered numerous times throughout the years.

Commit message:

[BUG] Lesson 2 Problem 3 - Towers of Hanoi Solution
BUG Description

Modification to the previous attempt to correct based on what is actually
desired.  Copied the solution from the course.  Need to brake down that
all disks above the target need to be moved from source to aux.  Then
final disk to destination, then all others from aux to destination in the
simplest of terms.

Related Issues
- #77

btb/lesson2/README.md, after:

# Lesson 2 - Recursion with Iteration, SubProblems, Divide & Conquer Patterns
## Lesson Description
Implementation of actual recursion problems following one of the described recursion patterns listed below.
- iteration
- subproblems
- divide & conquer

## Problems
### Problem 1
#### Problem Statement
>
Print out the odd indicies of an integer array.
>
```
Input : [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10]
Output : 
2 // occurs on index 1
4 // occurs on index 3
6 // occurs on index 5
8 // occurs on index 7
10 // occurs on index 9
```

#### Problem Discussion
- an iterative implementation would be quite trival
  - just iterate through the array two at a time starting at index 1
  - print at each index that is less than the overall array length
- expected operational time will be O(N) since will hit every other element within the array which is N/2 == N for complexity.
- expected memory impact will also be O(N) due to linear relationship to the number of elements within the array.

#### Problem Design
- take the serial approach and just convert into a recursive iteration problem.
- have each layer of the recursive function be responsible for the printing out of the current index and then call on the next index with the increment by two.
- if the passed in index is greater than that of the array total length, then just return (base case).

#### Problem Issues
- None

### Problem 2
#### Problem Statement
>
Find all substrings of a string.

#### Problem Discussion
- a substring of a string are consecutive combinations of characters within the string.
- `abcd` would result in the following substrings
  - `<empty>`
  - `a`
  - `b`
  - `c`
  - `d`
  - `ab`
  - `bc`
  - `cd`
  - `abc`
  - `bcd`
  - `abcd`
- this is an iterative pattern
- total number of strings being generated should be on the order of O(N^2) where N is the length of the original string.
- will have something along the lines of `N + (N - 1) + (N - 2) + ... 2 + 1 = N(N + 1) / 2 = O(N^2)`
- want only the unique set of substrings, thus if have repeating patterns will get repeating substrings.

#### Problem Design
- the original code provided multiple functions, 3 in total and wants to remove the unnecessary third.
- the original operates on at a specific index and then increments by one for the substring range resulting in the following substring
  - `a`
  - `ab`
  - `abc`
  - `abcd`
  - `b`
  - `bc`
  - `bcd`
  - `c`
  - `cd`
  - `d`
- the presentation of the data is position ordered
- can take the original code and move the iteration control to the first function with the substring functionality contained to the second function / the first recursive function.
- keep a `HashSet` of all substrings seen.  If the substring is a new string then add it to the set.

#### Problem Issues
- None

### Problem 3
#### Problem Statement
>
Implement the `Towers of Hanoi` to find the total number of moves it takes to move N disks.
>
Provide the following within the implementation.
- refer to the source destination and aux positions as indicies {0,1,2}
- create a `Move` class that represents a move of a disk.  Include the disk index, source and destination.  Set the return value of moving to be the list of `Move` objects.

#### Problem Discussion
- would have thought more of creating a `Disk` class over a `Move` class with the `Disk` having a move method.
- know that a disk can only be moved to another location iff
  - the location has no disks
  - the top disk at a specific location is larger than the disk being moved to a target location.

#### Problem Design
- have three stacks, contained within an array.  
- use the indicies provided above to index into for a from to destination
- will only need to perform push and pop operations to move disks around
- disks will be valued 1 through N

#### Problem Issues
- I can not see the solution programmatically.
- I have done this problem around 10 to 15 times in my career but always have to look at the solution.
- Don't know the correct mental reference for approaching this problem.
- Problems in this class where I can not see the sub-problem logic prevents me from making a solution.
- This problem is on my `memorize` set of problems prior to an interview.  Can you help me move it off this list?
- I don't see the aid of stair step problem usage for this, even though I can answer the stair step problem in an interview and have.

#### Problem Solution
- three main operations
  - move N - 1 elements that are above N from source to aux
  - move the Nth element from source to destination
  - move all the N-1 elements from aux to destination

### Problem 4
#### Problem Statement
>
Given a binary tree with distinct elements, print all possible arrays that could have led to this tree.

#### Problem Discussion
- depth of the node determines some order with respect to lower order nodes for a given tree branch.
- problem should be around a divide and conquer technique
- expect the time complexity to be greater than that of O(2^N) due to iterating over both left and right arraylists along with numerous copies.

#### Problem Design
- create supporting code to support the generation of a BST.
- nodes at the same level can occur in any order since they will end up in the same place
- due to the level being a controlling factor will likely need to support a depth first search approach to the problem to create the permutation of the insertion arrays. 

#### Problem Issues
- just a lot of code.
- spent a lot of time trying to address the array permutation.  Was trying to approach it differently but ended up going with what I knew how to do.
- once figured out how I wanted to do the permutations of each list, was not difficult.

### Problem 5
#### Problem Statement
>
- 1. What did you like about this submission?
  - I liked that it was actual coding.
- 2. What didn't you like about this assignment?
  - Would have liked some more on how to approach the specific patterns besides just answer the questions.
  - From the lecture on the review of lesson 1, if I was asked to say implement some of the pieces I would not know how.  
- 3. Would like the problems to build off of each other, so that way I can see a bit more of how to approach the patterns.  At the moment it is very much of if I see it I can answer it.  If I can not then I have issues.  This is quite true in problem 3 even though it is a problem I have answered numerous times throughout the years.
