ctci/iteration1/chapter9/README.md, before:

# Chapter 9 - Recursion & Dynamic Programming
## Description
This contains the questions that are reflected in Cracking the Coding Interview Fifth Edition specifically chapter 8.

## Problems
### Problem 1
#### Problem Statement
> 
A child is running up a staircase with n steps and can hop either 1, 2, or 3 steps at a time.  Implement a method to count how many possible ways the child can run up the stairs.

#### Problem Discussion
- Likely will fit into the category of a dynamic coding question.
- Plan to start with general recurisive solution, followed by analysis, momeization, then serial solution via the FAST methodology.
- Need to determine if the first step is always required or if the counts start from a base to step 1, step 2, or step 3.

#### Problem Design
- There are three possible choices at any given step (assuming there are that many steps left).
- Expected number of branch conditions will likely be three.
- Expected base case will occur when the nth step is fulfilled.

#### Problem Issues
- Realizing that I need to perform the recursion on steps N - 1 & N - 2 took a bit of time.
- Building out the sets made this easier to realize.

#### Problem Solution
- N/A

### Problem 2
#### Problem Statement
> 
Imagine a robot sitting in the upper left corner of a grid.  It can take only right and down.  How many total possible paths can the robot take to the bottom right corner of the grid.
>
Same rules but if there are spaces in which the path is blocked.

#### Problem Discussion
- likely will fit into a dp problem with a 2D matrix for the total caching of storage values or in an optimal fashion only a row of the matrix.
- there should be two branches to be considered.
  - 1. Move down (if not blocked)
  - 2. Move right (if not blocked)

#### Problem Design
- will assume that the matrix is initially given as a 2D matrix of ints.  All valid positions in which the robot can travel will be filled with 0's while those that have blocking objects will be filled with a 1.
- will implement the functional implementation first without blocking and then with blocking.  
- FAST methodology will only cover the blocking situation.

#### Problem Issues
- None. 

#### Problem Solution
- Same

### Problem 3
#### Problem Statement
>
Given an array A[0...n-1] such that an index is defined to be such that A[i] = i.  Given a sorted array of distinct integers, find the index where A[i] = i if one exists.  
>
What happens if the values are not distinct?

#### Problem Discussion
- values contained within the array can be negative.
- values are sorted, meaning that want to operate on the first non-negative number.  This can be found by a simple binary search.
- worse case all values are off by 1 of their index meaning that will have to search the whole array O(N) is expected worse case.
- Non-distinct values will force a bit more logic on the jumping.

#### Problem Design
- if A[i] == i 
  -  return true
- else if A[i] != i && A[i] >= 0 && A[i] > i 
  -  i = A[i]
- else if A[i] != i && A[i] >= 0 
  - i = binarySearch(A, A[i] + 1) // get the next non A[i] element index
else 
  - i = binarySearch(A, 0) // get the next non negative element index

#### Problem Issues
-

#### Problem Solution
-

Commit message:

[FTR] Chapter 9 Problem 3 - README Update
Feature Description

Detail of the issues and solution notes.  Also notes information for tradeoff
for the recursive vs the serial implementation.

Related Issues

ctci/iteration1/chapter9/README.md, after:

# Chapter 9 - Recursion & Dynamic Programming
## Description
This contains the questions that are reflected in Cracking the Coding Interview Fifth Edition specifically chapter 8.

## Problems
### Problem 1
#### Problem Statement
> 
A child is running up a staircase with n steps and can hop either 1, 2, or 3 steps at a time.  Implement a method to count how many possible ways the child can run up the stairs.

#### Problem Discussion
- Likely will fit into the category of a dynamic coding question.
- Plan to start with general recurisive solution, followed by analysis, momeization, then serial solution via the FAST methodology.
- Need to determine if the first step is always required or if the counts start from a base to step 1, step 2, or step 3.

#### Problem Design
- There are three possible choices at any given step (assuming there are that many steps left).
- Expected number of branch conditions will likely be three.
- Expected base case will occur when the nth step is fulfilled.

#### Problem Issues
- Realizing that I need to perform the recursion on steps N - 1 & N - 2 took a bit of time.
- Building out the sets made this easier to realize.

#### Problem Solution
- N/A

### Problem 2
#### Problem Statement
> 
Imagine a robot sitting in the upper left corner of a grid.  It can take only right and down.  How many total possible paths can the robot take to the bottom right corner of the grid.
>
Same rules but if there are spaces in which the path is blocked.

#### Problem Discussion
- likely will fit into a dp problem with a 2D matrix for the total caching of storage values or in an optimal fashion only a row of the matrix.
- there should be two branches to be considered.
  - 1. Move down (if not blocked)
  - 2. Move right (if not blocked)

#### Problem Design
- will assume that the matrix is initially given as a 2D matrix of ints.  All valid positions in which the robot can travel will be filled with 0's while those that have blocking objects will be filled with a 1.
- will implement the functional implementation first without blocking and then with blocking.  
- FAST methodology will only cover the blocking situation.

#### Problem Issues
- None. 

#### Problem Solution
- Same

### Problem 3
#### Problem Statement
>
Given an array A[0...n-1] such that an index is defined to be such that A[i] = i.  Given a sorted array of distinct integers, find the index where A[i] = i if one exists.  
>
What happens if the values are not distinct?

#### Problem Discussion
- values contained within the array can be negative.
- values are sorted, meaning that want to operate on the first non-negative number.  This can be found by a simple binary search.
- worse case all values are off by 1 of their index meaning that will have to search the whole array O(N) is expected worse case.
- Non-distinct values will force a bit more logic on the jumping.

#### Problem Design
- if A[i] == i 
  -  return true
- else if A[i] != i && A[i] >= 0 && A[i] > i 
  -  i = A[i]
- else if A[i] != i && A[i] >= 0 
  - i = binarySearch(A, A[i] + 1) // get the next non A[i] element index
else 
  - i = binarySearch(A, 0) // get the next non negative element index

#### Problem Issues
- Serial Implementation was very error prone for the search due to needing to limit the lower index for the greater value.
- Recursive implementation was trival, just forgot how to think about it.
- Not a recursive implementation due to only hitting each index only once.

#### Problem Solution
- Matches recursive implementation although there is a quicker serial implementation that also reduces the memory footprint but more error prone.
