ctci/iteration1/chapter11/README.md, before:

# Chapter 11 - Sorting
## Description
This contains the questions that are reflected in Cracking the Coding Interview Fifth Edition specifically chapter 11.

## Problems
### Problem 1
#### Problem Statement
> 
Given two sorted arrays, A and B, where A has a large enough buffer at the end to hold B, write a method to merge B into A in sorted order.

#### Problem Discussion
- would want to determine if the non-filled part is addressable or not.
- if not can always fill in and null out in the case of say an array list.

#### Problem Design
- will implement under the guise of two arrays being provided with the first array containing the sufficient size of addressable indices.

#### Problem Issues
- None

#### Problem Solution
- Matches solution.

### Problem 2
#### Problem Statement
> 
Sort an array of strings so all anagrams are next to each other.

#### Problem Discussion
- would need to know what is the ordering of the first anagram
- will assume it is the first in lexiographic order
- the strings that share the same anagram will then be sorted lexiographically
- this is essentially bin sorting based on the anagram.

#### Problem Design
- will need to be able to generate an anagram key that will be used to store the bin of strings that match a specific anagram.
- given two words that are anagram, they must generate the same key to be used within a HashMap, with the value being a balanced BST Red/Black so they are lexiographcially correct.
- once complete in populating, iterate through all anagram keys and get the lowest lexiographic value, sort these into an array.
- iterate through the array and generate the anagram key for each and then iterate through the entire value pair and populate an overall in-order list of strings.
- do this until the end of the sorted lexiographic first anagrams is complete.

#### Problem Issues
- None

#### Problem Solution
- The solution is fairly simple and does not require or implement the overall ordering of the words.
- My implementation is more complex with the requirement of being lexiographically correct w.r.t the anagram words and the overall list as well.

### Problem 3
#### Problem Statement
> 
Given a sorted array of integers that has been rotated an unknown amount of times, write code to find an element within the array.  The array was originally sorted.
>
```
{33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31}
12

5
```

#### Problem Discussion
- can double the array to get the middle to be completely sorted.
>
```
{33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31} => {33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31, 33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31}
```
- can be done in a single linear inspection of the dta once the dip from high to low occurs. the counted offset then signifies then beginning and end index in which to perform a search.
- if no rotation exist, can just perform the search 
- no rotation can be inspected by just examining if the first number is larger than the last number
- if rotation exists then will likely want to iterate from the front looking to see when the number goes from high to low.  

#### Problem Design
- determine if rotation has occurred.
- no rotation just search based on a start index and end index
- if rotation has occurred need to find the start and end indices.
- same binary search algorithm can be used in both cases
- this is likely worse than just doing a linear search.
- should still be able to implement a binary search.  Instead of blindly going to one half or another will need to look at the low and high index w.r.t the current inspected index.

#### Problem Issues
- 

#### Problem Solution
-

Commit message:

[FTR] Chapter 11 Problem 3 - README Issue & Solution Notes
Feature Description

Notes on issues and solution aspects of the problem.  The problem itself
is quite tricky for handling the duplicate case in which duplicate spans
both the low mid and high indices since can not indicate where the break
lies.

This requires more of a recursive implementation or a BFS saving of data.

Related Issues
- #52

ctci/iteration1/chapter11/README.md, after:

# Chapter 11 - Sorting
## Description
This contains the questions that are reflected in Cracking the Coding Interview Fifth Edition specifically chapter 11.

## Problems
### Problem 1
#### Problem Statement
> 
Given two sorted arrays, A and B, where A has a large enough buffer at the end to hold B, write a method to merge B into A in sorted order.

#### Problem Discussion
- would want to determine if the non-filled part is addressable or not.
- if not can always fill in and null out in the case of say an array list.

#### Problem Design
- will implement under the guise of two arrays being provided with the first array containing the sufficient size of addressable indices.

#### Problem Issues
- None

#### Problem Solution
- Matches solution.

### Problem 2
#### Problem Statement
> 
Sort an array of strings so all anagrams are next to each other.

#### Problem Discussion
- would need to know what is the ordering of the first anagram
- will assume it is the first in lexiographic order
- the strings that share the same anagram will then be sorted lexiographically
- this is essentially bin sorting based on the anagram.

#### Problem Design
- will need to be able to generate an anagram key that will be used to store the bin of strings that match a specific anagram.
- given two words that are anagram, they must generate the same key to be used within a HashMap, with the value being a balanced BST Red/Black so they are lexiographcially correct.
- once complete in populating, iterate through all anagram keys and get the lowest lexiographic value, sort these into an array.
- iterate through the array and generate the anagram key for each and then iterate through the entire value pair and populate an overall in-order list of strings.
- do this until the end of the sorted lexiographic first anagrams is complete.

#### Problem Issues
- None

#### Problem Solution
- The solution is fairly simple and does not require or implement the overall ordering of the words.
- My implementation is more complex with the requirement of being lexiographically correct w.r.t the anagram words and the overall list as well.

### Problem 3
#### Problem Statement
> 
Given a sorted array of integers that has been rotated an unknown amount of times, write code to find an element within the array.  The array was originally sorted.
>
```
{33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31}
12

5
```

#### Problem Discussion
- can double the array to get the middle to be completely sorted.
>
```
{33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31} => {33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31, 33, 41, 52, -23, 3, 12, 18, 21, 28, 31}
```
- can be done in a single linear inspection of the dta once the dip from high to low occurs. the counted offset then signifies then beginning and end index in which to perform a search.
- if no rotation exist, can just perform the search 
- no rotation can be inspected by just examining if the first number is larger than the last number
- if rotation exists then will likely want to iterate from the front looking to see when the number goes from high to low.  

#### Problem Design
- determine if rotation has occurred.
- no rotation just search based on a start index and end index
- if rotation has occurred need to find the start and end indices.
- same binary search algorithm can be used in both cases
- this is likely worse than just doing a linear search.
- should still be able to implement a binary search.  Instead of blindly going to one half or another will need to look at the low and high index w.r.t the current inspected index.

#### Problem Issues
- can be quite tricky to get the logic correct due to minor mistakes.

#### Problem Solution
- the solution actually considers the case of duplicates, which my solution only considers discrete.
- in the even of duplicate values when the low == current index value and current index value == high then actually need to search both halves due to a break can occur on either side.
- this case is more easily handled in a recursive search than in a serial implementation due to being able to traverse both from a top down implementation.
